A lone oak lay in a pains glade.
The sun washed its leaves with an eternal afternoon orange. It cast a soft shadow upon the long grass bed. 
That was home.

Warm, familiar, same old home.
Safe, closed. A time capsule.

High, black, titanous walls of bedrock stretched out long farther and higher than what the eye could see.
The bedrock circled the glade, casting its hard silhouette upon the meadows. 
Bordering the outside, the bedrock marked where home ended.

Home was comfortable. Family. Warm and green. 
One wasn't to blame for wanting to stay.
But the glade wasn't resourceful. It was contained and limited. 
Stuck in the past, it didn't offer the treasures of the new world. Starved, home was cut off.


One needed to venture out.


Onto the daring night, the dangers beyond.
Onto discomfort. Unfamiliar faces, strange places.
Outside.

Outside was scary and unfamiliar. 
Long deserts stretched hot sands across endless miles.
Deep oceans march long after what the eye could see.
Gray forests with unbeknown inhabitants.

But the desert hid gold; the ocean sunken treasures and the forest precious trees.
Trips outside the comfort zone were nutritional and beneficial, but tread too far from safety and you'll wither away by the burning sun.

Bit by bit. Face by face, place by place - the world shall be learned one step at a time.

On your endeavors, you might be tempted to settle in familiar places.


Oak forests and shallow plains might invite you to a trip down memory lane.
Visiting is harmless, but don’t overstay your welcome, don’t live in the past.

The plains may remain but your childhood is gone, no matter how familiar the textures may seem.

Allow the past to remain a fond memory. Cherish it, but surpass it.
Sail away, further and stronger than you did before.
Don’t miss the days where you tried to make sense of the world, for you are smarter now, and there is yet enough world for one to make sense for another hundred years.
Start today.
Slay the sun. Leave the glade behind. Let yourself be a part of a new day.

Make your standing be the glade of tomorrow.


